Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is vowing to continue with the
Gaza offensive he was speaking to
soldiers during a visit to a military
base in southern Israel the US is
warning Israel indiscriminate attacks on
civilians are costing the government
international
support this is going to be a difficult
War but there are signs of a breakdown I
can see that and surely you can see that
too I see your determination to continue
until the end and eliminate Hamas an
overwhelming victory over Hamas will
give us many many advantages both from
the power of deterrence and also from
the power of persuasion towards the
whole world sitting in the
stands well Bernard Smith joins us now
from Tel Aviv and Bernard we understand
the National Security US National
Security adviser Jake Sullivan is there
how are his meetings going with Israeli
officials
well he's bringing a message he's
carrying a message from Joe Biden from
the US President Biden has weathered
intense International criticism for his
pretty much unwavering support of
Israel's prosecution of its war against
Hamas and he's re he's reiterated his
support very recently he says he will
Israel will us will continue to support
Israel until Hamas is routed but Biden
has warned that public opinion could
shift in grave ways for Israel's
security and that's the message Jake
Sullivan's bringing here he's meeting
very shortly with Israel's war cabinet
that's Benjamin Netanyahu along with yav
Galant the defense minister and Benny
Gans and he says he'll be discussing
there a timetable to end the war and he
says he'll be urging Israel's leaders to
move to a different phase from the kind
of high intensity operations we've seen
today we know already America's begun
expressing concern about the High number
of Civ civilian casualties that that is
being that are being killed by Israel's
attacks on Gaza uh the US also wants to
see more Aid getting in and there are
indications that one of the crossings
into Gaza that's been closed since
October 7th The Crossing that allows in
goods and um piped oil piped fuel that
sort of thing that Israel has indicated
it might be willing uh to reopen that
the problem is Jake Sullivan bringing
this message from the US we know already
that benjam Netanyahu says and Israel's
defense foreign minister said we don't
need International support and both say
we will carry on Prosecuting this
war and Bernard what are we hearing
about a split within the war cabinet
over the issue of sending mediators or
negotiators back to
Qatar well more information has been
coming out again uh coming out today
about why uh the head of mosad has been
prevented from traveling to Qatar to
look at new ways of opening further
channels of communication uh with Hamas
and we understand that the war cabinet
is in agreement unanimous agreement that
they believe that hamas's leadership in
Gaza has lost contact with the Hamas
leadership in katar so they don't
believe that by being in katar there's
no way of finding out what Hamas in Gaza
is prepared to do in terms of
negotiations the differences in the war
cabinet come on how to move forward both
uh
Galant uh both sorry uh both the defense
minister and Benjamin Netanyahu they
want to take a passive approach they
want to wait until Hamas appears with
some sort of offer whereas Benny Gant
he's more in favor of sending somebody
out to katar or the katar is at least
being proactive in trying to find out
what Hamas wants to offer what Hamas
wants to do in terms of any future
negotiations but there's pressure from
hostage fam of course to bring those
captives back and they've written to the
prime minister to ask him why he hasn't
sent the head of mosad out katar for
further
negotiations all right we'll leave it
there thanks so much Bernard Smith